ASG Senate
April 18, 2012

Ani: so were gonna go ahead, exec board reports, this new arrangement will be permanent and exec will sit on this side. If anyone is not here you will be able to see that they are missing
Austin: please read my report, this past Monday we had the CEO reform with Mark Pinkus come with USA today. And so, they loved that we co sponsored it with them and they gave us a nice trophy. This will be in the office, 
David: so thanks again for all who were here for the launch of job cat were really excited about the friction we have gained, with a little over 100 users. Last senate I asked you guys to make a profile and no senators did. Raise your hand if you did, Ideally you guys would be posting a job if you made a profile. Its more important though that you tell your Evanston friends about it. Tell your professors, I really encourage you guys to do that. We want to guard the rock but we got beat to it. It has gotten some really good publicity, thanks for your support and keep it up
Steven: tomorrow night, Stephanie Hong is supporting STICHES new event, Spring Spree, NU Fashion night, were sponsoring STICH and unity, were connecting them with a lot of retailers and a bunch of coupons and deals are available for the entire weekend. 
Lauren: apps are out for SGC, we have already gotten a lot of interest so I would love to get some apps from Senators. We work with B and T status groups, and we put on the fall activities fair and that’s a big deal for freshman and spring leadership training for all the new presidents and treasures and were responsible for validating all new student groups. If you want to become powerful…
Brandon: consider running for rules and read my exec board report
Ani: couldn’t print agendas today, the printer is broken.

The first general order of tonight, we have a packed agenda, the first up is the diversity committee, we vote to create it a few weeks ago
Jazzy: glad to be here, I have come to think of this committee as the child of ASG and the coalition of colors, because it will effect the community. I think of this team as the dream team and have confidence in them, we got 21 applicants, I want to introduce you to the chair, Haley, 
Haley: I will be working as the chair, we held interviews last week if yall wanna come up and introduce yourselves, its unclear whether they will have individual roles
	Sophia, Ian, Anchal, Diamond, MJ, Sarah, Nora, Peter
Much of what were gonna be doing is centralizing the issues that have been going on this year is to consolidate the issues that have been going on this year. Were working with the academic requirement committee and were going to be working on that, we asked the admin to release the diversity report by april 30. 
David: are you optimistic about the report?
Haley: I am this is something they have and have chosen not to release. They have had nearly 3 and a half weeks
Jazzy: were meeting with Lindsor and Cudeurvo,
Wilson: how do you plan on interacting with NU’s new sources if at all
Haley: we have already begun but we plan to as they come
Ani: we forgot to mention that we have to confirm the senators on the committee if we could have the senators step forward for questions
Sophia: I have been involved with it since January I think its important in terms of inclusion, its very relevant
Ian: I want to be on this committee because I want to take things I have seen on campus and use it with the committee and use it to make some impact this year
Ani: all in favor of confirming these senators:
(passed)
5 k initiative update
Austin: it is underway, we have been in communications with NUIT and we have a map to show you were the internet coverage should go on the south point of the lakefill, the access point is based on reganstein, on the top of the building so that the trees, there are some trees that will block the internet from getting to the east wings, so the fire pit is at the top of the map and we talked about getting access all the way out to there, but its not feasible. 
Wilson” how much data or how many users can access this?
Austin: I don’t think there will be a very stric limit
Mark: I notice there is a large trunk that extends into the lake, is there a more efficient way to get more land and less lake covered?
Austin: he said moving it up would actually make the trees block more of it. 
Sarah Brock: are we not concerned that the water has stronger covered than the land?
Ash: there is nowhere else to put the router where it would be better. 
Wilson: are we concerned about long term exposure to the fish in the water?
Austin: we talked to the NUIT today, the police are looking into installing a camera out there and this wireless would be extended along the fill but there are a ton of unknowns about their expected installation, but we could potentially combine with them and double this system. But that project is hypothetical and so if they don’t get back to us then we will move ahead on that. 
X: what is the instillation date?
Austin: we said may 1st, but they said probably the third week in may. But were waiting to hear back from the police which is pushing it back. 
Matt: are we using the whole budget?
Austin: yes
Ani: the ASG term end presentation
Ash: we want to present you guys what ASG has worked on this year on behalf of the exec board, the idea is not to promote our own agendas, the goal is to get things done and its important that everyone in this room knows what we were able to accomplish. Starting with our initial goal:
Austin” to echo ash, this is not touting, we want to be accountable to the students. Giving context: ASG exists to create connections… and experience. It was a way to focus and make sure what were doing is relevant. 
Ash: basically after reflecting on what we could accomplish we focused on new traditions, strengthening relations with Evanston, 
Austin: we met with DR Teas Irving, she came from U F which has a lot of traditions, and we wanted to have similar ones here. The 5K, roundtables with university officials, engaging leadership series, asg is perfectly positioned to help develop leaders at NU, the ASG and NUDM food truck festival and there is now funding to have that at least 2 times a year. And we are looking to have that cosponsored with other groups. 
ASH: services and resources, some of the major ones we had included the housing fair, cell phone rental program, laptop chargers in the library, legal counseling FAQ, wildcat pad, which is the online sublet site. 
Austin: student life and academic initiatives, including yoga classes, MLK day that was really bolstered by the finance committee, deering doors, and you can see some of the other ones going on, meal plan and shuttle reform, the housing fair
Ash: community relations, big bight night. The city light walk where the committee identifies areas that are poorly lit, the student protest working group that Steven and mark were able to muster a lot of interest by other schools, the landlord licensing committee was a huge step in the right direction with the brothel law, spring spree, which is tomorrow and further connects us with Evanston in general
Austin Programming, annual wildcat tailgate and T shirt exchange
ASH: Student group support 1.2 million dollars were funded to groups, server clean up, student group apportionment committee in senate, wanted to make sure the most number of groups were represented in senate, the next one is engagement with administrator and trustees. Student alumni interaction, distinguished secondary teaching committee. 
Austin: university committees, you can see a plethora of those that senators already sit on and they are open throughout the year. Contact Brad if you are interest and he will tell you if there is an available spot. The last one is organizational improvements: some of these involve a lot of senate reform measures that we are enhancing even further this year. Senate improvement, dorm elections, ASG brand improvement which gave a fresh face to our continued focus on students. Hot chocolate chats and all ASG meetings. 
ASH: there will still projects that we weren’t able to finish, the new student center, railsford and dunley which is a consulting firm, they are doing a comprehensive assessment about the possibility of getting a new center and hopefully they realize as we all realize that we need a new student center. We have put this all together in 5 pages and it will be present to the student body and if they are interested in knowing what we have accomplished please share this with them. 
Ani: okay great were going to move right into electoral confirmation, were going to have the election commission chair come up and speak about the electoral procedure, and then we will move into confirmation. 
Francis: we had a pretty smooth process, we had all the candidates get signatures, go through the rules, we have a few complaints about chalking, we had a great turn out about 38000 in the first and 3300 in the second vote
Wilson: what kind of procedures exist when we find out that spray chalking is not water soluble and the election has already happened. 
Mark: what are your thoughts about preferential voting
F: there were a lot of people who didn’t vote, I think when students are not well informed they tend not to vote so I am hesitant to encourage that. 
Mark: what’s the different between abstention and no comment, no confidence, if there are more no confidence than other votes than those people cannot be elected. 
Ani: were gonna move into a vote to certify the election process
(passed)
were gonna move into confirmations
Gabby to Neil Mehtta. 
Gabby: this is my last day of my 3 years, but I have really enjoyed it I have done it all, this is weird bc I am a senior and there are a lot of unfamiliar faces and I just hope you all have a great experience. I wish Neal a lot of luck, its hard work and it can be a very thankless job. But its what you got to do…

(confirmed)

Gabby: Im an engineer so I don’t have a lot to say, but I didn’t really know what I was getting into when Matt Bellasai swore me in but take your job seriously, talk to your constituents, but make things happen because you got a lot of power. 
Alex Van Atta

(confirmed)

Ash: thank you, for a great year, it’s a tough job and there were a lot of hard times but there were a lot of times where I think I did good and the organization did good. All in all its been a great year for helping to make that happen

(confirmed)

Austin:so I did write a little something, okay being student body president is much like a coloring book you start with the outline design the mission to serve students but you are given free reign for how to color it in the lines. This year has been so colorful the lessons learned have revealed to me how to grow as a friends and as a leader, to starting co sponsorships. I am so thankful for this year, above all, I like to remember to that who you are precludes who you are, it is your character that matters most I want to see all of you grow as leaders and friends, thank you everyone for an amazing year. God bless and make it matter. 

Victor: I am so grateful to be able to serve you all I think this organization is fantastic and I think we can do a lot of great things and I think we have the people here to do and we look forward to doing it. Thank you all and get excited. 

Ani: next up is the dorm senator election commission
Brandon: each year a commission is elected, as a committee we look over the election guidelines we figure out ways to advertise for the commission, it is open up to any senator. 
Ani: this years elections will be better, expect this to be a substantial role and to work with some big leaders and I encourage you to nominate yourself or nominate others. 

Mitoki accepts
Ian respectfully declines
Mark respectfully declines
Henry Brooke respectfully declines
Sarah Brock accepts
Matt Bellasai respectfully declines

Mitoki: hi im mitoki im a junior electrical engineer I have been a senator for two and a half years but I think that dorm senators need a really nice elections and I think I can help rha rcb out I am already in contact with them about a lot of stuff
Sarah: econ major, greek caucus, I want to do this bc I think recruitment is important and its good to have a great group of people here
Ian: what dorms have you lived in here and what was your experience like. 
Sarah: I lived in Bobb and I don’t remember recruitment
Motoki: I lived in sergeant and 626 emerson, in sergeant there were two people running and it was the only time there were more than one person running in a dorm, this year I was a write in 
Wilson: this job requires a lot of time in the beginning of the school year and leading into the school year, 
Motoki: ill be here doing research during the year, so I’ll be here early. 
Sarah: I move in two weeks early because I am in charge of my sorority and helping move my sister in
Girish: you alluded to the process and that it is somewhat of a joke, do you guys have any ideas for how to make this a more competitive process. 
Motoki: I think we need to push on the prestige of the position. We are dealing with large sums of money and a large body of people and I think there is prestige we can push and I think that’s how we get people interested
SARAG: I think this has to do with PR, there must be lots of students coming to NU that have dealt with student government in the past
Wilson: motion to white ballot

(passed)
Ani: incidentally the dorm senator election committee is being voted in early to work on materials
Up next is Hillel investigation for misconduct
Girish:Hillel and FMO discussed their failure to publish, we reached a discussion on Hillel which was to approve misconduct. Shmooze is a very highly regarded publication. There was not a lot of internal interest. Last year they did not have a fall winter or spring publication and they were funded for it. They waved the right to have a hearing and recognized their misconduct and so we don’t need you guys to vote on it. You guys can ask me any questions and you guys can have a pro con
Girish: the only repercussions are that they have to give the funding back
X: the money wasn’t spent?
Girish: they did nothing with the money
Wilson: motion to previous question
Ani: any objections
Were gonna move to a vote to approve the misconduct
(passes)
Rules committee elections

Brandon: we overlook rules each week, its composed of 6 senators, and usually 3 are elected in the fall and 3 in the spring but given circumstances were electing 5 now. It’s a great committee and if you feel that you haven’t been understanding how this works, it’s a great opportunity
Ani: if your considering it for now think of it as a trial . the two seats we are doing now are only for this quarter. 

Dana accepted
Henry Brooke accept
Justin accepted
Mark Silberg accept
Abby accept
Paul accept

(motion to move the more permanent positions now)
(passed)
were gonna open up the nomination process again

Henry Brooke

Sophomore student athlete representative, I want to be on rules because I want to be influential in designing legislation and on disciplinary action in senate
Paul
I want to be on rules because all legislation has to go through rules I want to make sure everything is coherent and worth being here for
Mark (decline)
Dana Lineback 
Freshman in Weinberg from sergeant I have been here for 2 quarters, I love roberts rules but I don’t know much about the legislative process I have never been on a official 
Katie Funderberg 
I would like to learn more about the legislation writing process
Justin
This is going to be my last year and I want to be more active in my last year. 

Wilson: some people cant write and don’t know it, how can you suggest changes that would be strong enough
Henry: I would be good at suggesting in a polite way more coherent stuff and I wouldn’t allow anything bad to come through and I really don’t want that to happen
Paul: I would like to go through with people point by point, I would say to add a personal touch directly with the person who is writing. 
Dana: most of my experience comes from high school, I was the editor and chief of the high school news paper, and I understand that people are very attached to things they write and it is all about the way you approach it and the relationship you form in the first few minutes
Katie: I was an English tutor in high school and it teaches you how to edit stuff without making people feel bad, point out why things are unclear rather than why its bad
Justin: I have worked on the daily, and Im a poli sci major so I am used to writing. 

Victor: what other ASG commitments do you guys have 
Paul: I am the Student groups caucus whip but that’s it
Dana: rha senator, working on the handbook, should be done next week, im on the ad hoc committee for the unofficial student guide
Katie: since the election is over all I have is the ad hoc committee for transportation
Justn: I am on services committee, not involved too much on what were doing so far with off campus
Henry: I was on the election committee

Ian: have you ever written or sponsored a piece of legislation
Dana: no
Katie: yes
Justin: no
Henry: no
(candidates leave the room)

Wilson: throughout my experience on rules, in the four years of senate, I have been approached by all of them because they had question because they wanted to help and that’s a great thing. I also think that X would satisfy this role well
Mary Kate: endorsing X, she has done a great job in writing by herself
X: we should consider voting for someone who does not have a lot of experience 
Brandon: don’t let someone who has written dissuade you because of that
David: endorsing X, I have worked with him in the past, I can count on him
Francis: speaking on behalf of X and X, on the election committee, they were both very responsible and they work very hard and would take it very seriously. 
X: I would like to speak on behalf of X, especially with very big commitments they are able to multitask while managing senate classes and sports, I would highly recommend X
Wilson: I started off as a freshman with no experience as well
(motion to close the debate period)
(passed)
Ani: Open your laptops.  I give you permission.  Do you have it open?  You don’t have to open your own laptop.  Meet with Senators in your group.  I want you guys to be friends.  Groups were arranged randomly/alphabetically.
Victoria: Why am I not in a group?
Ani: You didn’t fill out the survey.  Feel free to join a group.
(take time to talk with your groups until results are in)
results are in, Brandon will announce 
Brandon: the winners are Katie, paul and henry. 
Ani, were gonna move into the elections for the two remaining spots, who will serve the rest of the quarter and be up for the election again in the fall

Dana
Justin
Mark
Abby

Abby: sophomore pha senators, I would love to serve for this quarter because I just finished up with the election commission and carry what I have learned into the rules committee
Dana: I still want to be on rules for the same reasons
Justin: im Justin

Ian: will you seek a longer term if elected
Abby: im gone in the fall and I will reapply in the winter if possible
Dana: yes
Justin: absolutely

Wilson: what would your favor roberts rule be
Dana: point of information its always misused
Justin: I don’t have one
Abby: they all are wonderful, I would say motion to white ballot.

Motoki: what are your commitments this quarter
Justin: im on services
Abby: just finished up elections committee, im in design for America
Dana: most of my things are finishing up, just pledged AXO
(motion to close debate period and candidates exit)

Wilson: get X in here early
Motoki: im gonna speak on behalf on X, she really wants to get involved in ASG I tried to talk her into SGC but I think she wants rules
X: I  think X works really hard, she would be a great addition
Francis: X is really responsible 
Girish: he has been super involved, hes looking for ways to be even more involved. 
David: X is on my committee, 
(motion to close debate period)
Ani: How many midterms do people have?
(groans)
Ani: While its being counted, we’re going to move on.  Four pieces of new business.  
Ani: Legislation – enhancing PR senate involvement
David: Want to codify senator involvement with PR.  PR committee is clearly a cornerstone of the offerings but it is not fair to mandate that they do all of the work.  Their energy should be more focused on strategy and graphic design.  Every other student group on campus has more ability to say to their members that they want them to participate in flyering.  Second, we need to develop an ASG in which we all take ownership over our initiatives.  It needs to be on all of us to make that initiative become successful.  I’m asking you to take on a new responsibility.  Its only one hour per quarter which is minimal in the scheme of things.
Becca: We are working on thinking of new methods other than flyering.  Right now, flyering is the biggest way to advertise on campus.  It would be a couple flyers per person rather than 6 people having to spend hours to cover all of campus.
David: We are often accused of having bad PR.  A lot of it has to do with the fact that we’re all not publicizing and participating in our own events.  
Wilson: How would this transfer over for senators who leave or are replaced?  Is it the seat or the person? If you were a senator for the first week, I don tink that person is necessarily off the hook, I think we have a judicial system for a reason. Yeah we were saying in exec today that there are a number of systems in place, there could be a sign in and sign out, we could simply institute something that would solve these problems. 
I would support legislating that method so once you’re gone it will stay in place. 
David: I think that it is up to 
X: the greek caucus finds the 2 absences as too harsh, 
David: I don’t want there to be leeway, if a senator was up for review it would be up to rules to make a specific decision that accounts for something like that. And again we spoke in exec and someone said to me that this it too strict, but review should happen on a case by case basis
Justin: we had to fire for jobcat would this double commit?
David: this is just a requirement that you have to advertise for one hour
Jane: what are you counting as an hour, are you going by event hours or hour hours, 
Becca: its going to be on an event by event basis,
David: its about the intent, if you’re asked to flyer 3 places and your done in 40 min than you’re done. 
Mitoki: is this for all ASG committee members or just senators?
David: this is the way that I see to take the body that I see doing the least amount of this grunt work and getting them engaged. 
Tori: what if there are less jobs than there are people?
David: that would be at the rules committee’s discretion. I also don’t foresee that being an issue, and if it is, then there are deeper problems. Its about publicizing ASG as an organization
Mark: how time sensitive is this?
David: its up to you, if you want to give yourself one less week to do this so be it. 
Francis: it seems like the point of this is to pull senate together, do you think it would be better to make it for any committee you’re not a part of?
David: I think we can find a solution there, I would hesitate to say that you could show up to a committee you’re not a part of. 
Mark: can I motion to make this old business?
Ani: any objections? Move to a vote, all in favor of making this old business
(passed: old business)
Ian: you do want senate to do this work but will you hold the PR committee to the same standard
Becca: this is not to say we are going to decrease our level of work but to increase our level of presence on campus. 
Wilson: motion to ending the question period. 
Ani: passed, motion to amend, I do think this is a noble cause, I do feel that there should be some statement about who is controlling what events are okay and what are not so I motion to add a line that says any event that will fulfill this body will be okayed by the parliamentary body or the PR VP. I am willing to change that to anyone on exec. This is meant to say that you must seek approval ahead of time.  
(seconded)
Ani: were gonna have a pro con period on this in a second
Motoki: this is still only related to PR work
Wilson: motion to amend everything that we just said and replacing it with any ASG committee. 
The entire thing will read “dedicating at least one hour of PR work or labor approved by the ASG exec board”
Ani: question period
Rebecca: say I do something and I help them, it wouldn’t count because I didn’t get approval
Wilson: right
Matt: don’t you think requiring people to help with publicity is different from helping with event. 
Wilson: to a lesser extent, Big Bight Night, that was the kind of thing I was doing because I wanted to help with the event. If we can tap this resource, that would be a useful thing. 
Ani: we are now going to move into pro con, each pro con shall be no more than 2 min. 
David: I would like you to pass this bill if you pass this amendment, but this is about publicity. The more rules we impose the harder this becomes to enforce and the more stringent the enforcement. I don’t think we should make this hour devoted other things than publicity. And I think its too bureaucratic to get approval ahead of time. 
Ian: this is about culture, to get people more involved generally, if were going to make a requirement we should make it easier rather than harder. Publicity will result from this
Girish: there is a huge organizational need for PR and not for events, ASG’s publicity is nothing compared to A and O. 
Wilson: why does this amendment preclude people from doing more pr work, you as an exec member has a power to veto, 
Girish: why let it get to this point
(motion to previous question)
David: hold yourself to a high standard
(passed) 
were gonna talk about the bolded questions and then talk about the bill. All in favor of amending this amendment 
(passed)
Girish: motion to amend, I want to make exec members have to comply as well,
Jane: can we amend the 2 absences to one. 
ANi: were now going to vote on whether or not to hear this proposal
(passed)
Jane: if you miss one senate, and you miss your hour you’re going to be reviewed any ways, it seems redundant to me. 
Ani: we will now move into debate
Mary Grace: pro, I support this, I think putting in 2 absences is very strict, its what we put in for absences total, it would prevent you from being a member of senate in the future
David: this is your decision, im asking you to hold yourselves accountable and to commit, its just an hour, and I think that’s such a small step and to water it down and decrease the punishment seems silly. 
Jane: you would be reviewed by exec. 
Mark: if your excuse is that you had something to do, rules committee can deal with that in their own time. We should all be held accountable. Reducing it down to one absence is silly. 
Wilson: they could have just as easily made this a senator requirement rather than punishable. SO I think this is just dealing with an aspect of the code that the authors opened themselves up to. 
Ani: another pro?
(motion to previous question)
all in favor of reducing from 2 to one
(amendment rejected, still 2 absences)
(Previous question)
move to vote on the entire bill, all in favor
(passed)
were going to move onto campaign promises
Mark: this has been edited by al four elected positions but it asks that all elected officials report to senate after their retreat. The motivation behind this is to hold people accountable to what they said they would do. 
Ani: closing the question period, it will be old business for next week. 
Mark: Speakers calendar, this sets up a google calendar that the parliamentary body wll be responsible for up keeping. I request that this becomes new business. 
Ian: are you open to working with the tech dept to get this on our site?
Ani: any questions. 
(motion to make this old business)
this is now moved to old business
Ian: is the deadline on this ASAP? When would you like to have this fully functional. 
Mark: asap
Ani: pro con
(previous question)
vote
(passed)
next item of business, services VP selection
Brad: the way the code is written right now is that services is selected by a different committee than all the other ones, so we want to strike the part of the code and ask that the services committee be grouped in with all the other VPs. 
Ian: services is supposed to be appointed by the senate. 
Brandon: the FVP and SGCVP are all in the same line and elected by senate
Brad: we would like to make this old business tonight or else it will throw off the whole system, we would like to confirm next wed. 
(motion to make it old business)
Ani: we are now in line for pro con
(motion to suspend the rules)
move to an immediate vote
(passed)
Ani: I am inspired by how well this went tonight, good job guys
Abby and Dana won the two quarter long seats. 
Ian: will you investigate a gross overcall of our code and figure out why that happened. 
Ani: its been done, they overlooked it, the people responsible left the room
(good of the order)
(roll call)
