Ani: were gonna move into exec board reports, a quick update. I have been meeting with new senators, great meetings, thank you, I think that I have heard a lot of great ideas. Sophia had a great one where senators meet for coffee. We want to have a room of people who like each other. In terms of filling seats, were vetting thoroughly people to represent dorms who want to be a part of senate that want to take on projects and represent constituents well. If there is something you would like to express in person, please let me know. Questions? Any other exec reports
Ash: two things, Betsey Burns is looking for 2 sophomores to serve on the Athletic Departments wellness committee. One meeting per quarter. I need a female interested. Also, were putting together a list of accomplishments to show the students at large what we have accomplished and hopefully well have that ready by next Wednesday and hopefully that will benefit you guys to get a feel of what you can do and where were going?
Lauren: we are starting the Spring Leadership Training; if you have any input, please let me know. I would love to hear your ideas, it’s a big idea, its all the Presidents and Treasurers, if you have any suggestions. Next week I should be coming with more new groups, in a week there will be more T status. 
Girish: We talked about Hillel misconduct. That’s next Tuesday we are also investigating FMO
Austin:  Doctor Tayas Irvin, is starting up the police advisory board, were looking for senators to be a part of that. If you’re interested or know anyone who would want to be serving in this, also on Monday there is a speaker coming in sponsored by USA today. Mark Zinga is coming in. It’s a ASG student affairs are all sponsoring it and it’s the only one they are sponsoring nationally. 
Ani: The point of this spreadsheet is for you to be able to contact your fellow senators

Were going to move onto the ASG operating budget, it is in the range of 40000 dollars, it’s the money we have to spend as a student group. 

Were gonna wait for the operating budget and move into JobCat. 
Were moving the legislation up
(passed)

Lindsay: I am going to DC next week to represent sorority and fraternity members to lobby for more affordable housing. Its not just for Greek life, its any non profit student housing due to a loop hole that doesn’t allow non profits to donate and still maintain their tax exemptions. This will effect all college students so the university’s wont have to pay for these things. In the next 10 years we have to make handicap ramps and elevators so this will allow people to donate. I am asking for your support. 
Ian: is there anything we can do as individuals to support this
Lindsey: this is mainly just in support of the proposal
Ani: any other questions. This is a resolution, this doesn’t require ASG to act on anything. This is an expression of support, were speaking on behalf of the student body. 
Motion to PQ
Move to a vote
(passes)
please fill out the spreadsheet
Back to the JobCat presentation
David: We have put a lot of time into this and I would appreciate your attention. Job cat is Launched and Live! We have been working on this since fall. What is Job cat? It connects residents with students for short term employment, it’s a one stop shop for NU students to connect with residents. We have put in  a lot of time to make this successful. Here it is. Or you could submit to the ad on the right because a resident is already ready to hire. We have done very minimal but a little PR in Evanston, we designed this to be as easy as possible, it hasn’t been tested and were looking for feedback so please let us know. Why should NU students use this? Its free! Evanston will be on JobCat, were really good at reaching out to Students at NU but its hard to reach out to Evanston residents, over the coming weeks you will see us putting a lot of energy into reach them. You want to give back to Evanston, this makes more of an incentive for us to demonstrate to them what we can do for them. Mark Whitty said that Adam Smith would be proud. Why should Evanston use this? We have worked really hard to get this, when they hire us they know we are hard and reliable workers. Craigs list has gone through very few changes in the past 15 years. We have a tech VP who is up to date and knowledgeable. Its easy and free to get connected. Some features to be aware of: log in with your net ID. You can make a profile, or upload a mini biography and a resume. You can comment on a student or job. Browse jobs by most recent, category, or minimum pay. You can preference jobs. You can protect your privacy. You don’t have to e-mail them directly. Safety guidelines. It is up to you to be responsible, call the residents ahead of time possibly carry pepper spray and there is a box check that requires students to look at the guidelines, will anyone use it? We are urging you guys to get involved and promote this. Were not good at standing behind out products. We want you guys to take ownership of Jobcat like AO and Mayfest do. Well give you easy instructions, in principle you are ASG and JobCat is ASG. How do we get people to use a social network if people aren’t using it? People don’t want to be on something that other people are not on. We need you to be those first people! Please tell your Northshore friends. Please challenge them to be involved. We have flyers were posting in public Evanston places. We reached out to public schools, church groups, and PTI has agreed to post it in their sites. We have contact with Evanston publications that are not NU affiliated. City of Evanston Newsletter.  Please use the power of Word of Mouth. Thank you so much Ethan Ramba. The services committee a thanks to them as well. This is the kind of stuff that ASG is good at. 
Ian: where is the money coming to flyer this?
David: the ASG publicity fund. 
Ani: now, we have a special announcement
Francis Brooke: the most important election, Willie Wonka 
For student life: Alex Van Atta won with 55%. AVP: Neil won 52% There will be a run off between 46% Victor and Brad, Cam and Steven got 36%
Ani: runoff is triggered when no candidate has a majority
Ani: lets take a moment to thank the election commission, voting in the run off will happen on Friday the 13th, so dig in for some more campaigning. 
Ash: to give you guys a run down, the ASG budget has to get approved by senate, it comes out of the student activities funds. We want to show you the recommendations we made based on what we spent this year and what we think is necessary for the coming year… 
Austin: for the 5k, ultimately, we would like to ultimately make that 15K
Ani: please don’t publicize this yet, its not confirmed
Austin: its just a “k” initiative. We know for sure there is at least 5000 dollars
X: about the food trucks, you said you were going to do it on a quarterly basis
Ash: we haven’t decided how many times were going to do that, its up to the new administrations. Its an ASG DM co sponsorship. 
Jo: right now we have only budged 400 for it,
Ani: the SAF cannot use money for food, 
Austin: the biggest request we got were trashcan places to sit and clean up
Ani: are there any questions or proposed amendments, seeing none were going to move to a vote
Ash: again, its 46400$ and the jump is mostly due to the 5k
Ani: all in favor?
(passed)
Good of the order
Mark: next week is earth week and were accumulating a pile of garbage. Its on Sunday of Next week. 
Satirios, its autism awareness month
Austin: another cool opportunity, joining the dillo day task force, you meet with cool people to make dillo day even better, we need 5 ASG volunteers. Its once a week for an hour. This coming Wednesday is the veritas forum in pick it’s a debate between faith and science and its moderated by a cool NU person. 
Ian: GES has cool events coming up
Ani: if you cold please fill out the document online, any other questions?
Roll Call. 

