ASG Senate Minutes
10-17-2012


Ani: I hope you’re enjoying the pizza, you can thank me for it, brad didn’t want it. If you feel like what were doing is a lot of internal stuff, keep in mind the chief of staff will help you with your experience and your friends experience here.
Ani: approval of the journal, are there any motions?
David: operation committee, brainstorming project and they will come in and present soon
Becca: door tag, if you have a nickname email me
·      We are sponsoring a multicultural scholar in Levron, its in the e-mail.  
David: Alex texted me his report, for a list of  my projects check the report, Amalia Namath took time out of her busy schedule… make her homecoming queen.
·      Services, solidified projects,
o   Bike share, accessible bike rental program, wild cat wheels, an opportunity to pay to rent a bike for the day, rent a bike on one end of Sheridan and deposit it at the other end for free. UGPC help
o   Unofficial student guide, not very useful written by upper classmen, we are re hashing it hoping to provide things that students would read, so I have told the folks working on it, if you could read it and ramble it off without research than its not that useful, key features, legal advise FAQ, video Q&A of upperclassmen sharing insight, personal finance, in addition to a study abroad travel guide
o   Partnering with student life to get printers in dorms, confident we can see a pilot program soon. Justin and Robert are heading that up from services with Student Life
o   Next Wednesday we have a food truck festival partnering with homecoming, if you are interested in checking wildcards, it will help with your PR requirement.
Neil: faculty student interaction grants are underway, tell your professors to apply
·      We have a lot of money to give to professors who want to take their students to events like coffee or anything related to courses, bridge the gap between professors and students
·      Max is 300 dollars, get to know your profs better
o   Motoki: is this for undergrad specifically
o   Neil: yes, online form that I can approve or deny,
Steven: a piece of new business that I wont be here tonight to present, it is a resolution to support the rental unit licensing that is going through in Evanston, I highly recommend pushing this to old business so we can bring it to the meeting next week.
·      Housing fair, Nov 16, if you have any questions or interest.
o   Last year was the first year we did it and it was a great success.
·      Community engagement grant, chris harlo, if you have any interes in that, talk to him we want to make sure its really robust before we bring it to senate
Brad: 10k committee elections, this is in my report, we have 85 new people in ASG, we need someone to keep track of all of that
Victor: freshman video guide
·      Lipdub, lipsync to a song, you would bring a lot of different groups together
·      Continued speaker series: different admin and faculty to roundtable discussion
·      Long term project: COFHE, group of 31 competitive institutions, highly confidential they are the schools we look to for peer research, digitalizing the archives, like senate agendas, and goofy minutes
·      Making a bigger presentation to follow up on the campaign promises a follow up to show what projects we have made since then and the long term goals we have laid out for this year.
Ani: if your confused, feel free to ask we will be glad to explain it.
Were going to move to 10 k committee elections.
Brad: it is an inititive that was founded last year, if you had 10k to change anything what would you change the committee is responsible for coming up with a list of ideas that are feasible and good and senate approves the ideas and the approved ideas get put up to campus for a vote, and spring quarter the idea is implemented, the legislation states that there are 3 involved and 3 uninvolved members of the committee in ASG. We are electing 3 people tonight, 1 who is not in ASG and 2 who are. Ian, Amalia, and Ellie currently hold position.
Ani: we are going to start with people who are not in ASG.
Nominations:
·      William Mclaughlin
·      Karan Goenka
·      Anne Li
·      Gaurav Kikani
·      Kenny Mok
·      Amol Mody
·      Rytoa Terada (Paco)
WM: my name is Will I am a junior in Weinberg studying economics I believe I I am receptive to and aware of the needs and wants of nu students, pres of ISBE, fraternity, volunteer, why now? Why the ASG committee? What appeals to me is the public nature, it is the transparent side of ASG, they make the school better to me, ISBE makes me the ideal candidate, representing the needs of students, business edu. That work also involves constantly working with committee and with groups and reviewing and approving ideas we just accepted 150 members which is a bit more than ASG but it speaks to the need at NU that speaks to experiential learning.
KG: my name is Karan, I am a junior in Weinberg studying econ and math, my first time in America was my freshman year, pres of dorm, pres of RHA, VP of ISEC that facilitates ISEC, S. Asian dance, frat, I have been a part of a lot of student groups and I have interacted with a lot of leaders, I genuinely vcare a lot about this community I promised myself that I wold leave it better than when I joined it, the ASG 10k initiative is the greatest group because we are making a tangible difference. Taks interested and result oriented and not scared to go to students leaders and admin to get a better idea of how we can make a difference.
GK: my name is Anne Li, freshman in Medil, I initially didn’t apply to ASG bc I had no intention of joining, I adored my student govt in high school I was community service share pres of school for a year I thought in college I should focus more on my GPA but then I met someone in ASG who gushes about all the stuff you guys do and he seems really productive and I missed being productive and passionate and an important member of the community and this email came around and it was perfect because in high school I never purchased anything that we really needed, so I am really excited for the opportunity to hopefully fulfill my dream. I hope to listen to the NU community and give back.
GK: (via video)Weinberg Junior, MMSS, econ, consentration in music and finance, heard about it from last years 5k, thought it was fantastic open forum to democraticly chose an idea, numerous students who can use wifi on lakefill. Not having been a member of ASG, unique perspective. Lend, analytical approach to problem solving, thinking practically, reach pragmatic solutions, undergrad budget priority, similar process to 10k solicit ideas, research w budget constraints, craft viable proposals for budgeting community, appreciate the opportunity, informed prospective, unique perspective, asset, greatly appreciate your endorsement,
KM: poli sci freshman, not in ASG, really passionate about community, I feel that my experience in and out of high school have prepared me for a committee position, as class treasurer I had to help finance for prom and class trip and help determine what students want vs what we could afford, many students came up with ideas similar to the 10 k. I have experience dealing with these issues and working with admin on projects and big evernts, when I was organizing a local benefit consert I had to meet with the mayor and I had to work to install a recycling bin and had to work with admin to make it work. Competent at presenting to a large group of people, for a benefit fundraiser and I had to speak in front of a hundrer people down to earth and straightforward.
AM: freshman wienberg, undecided but probably econ, I am not involved in student groups but ASG was something I knew I wanted, I ran for senator and lost, why I want to be in the 10k is because I think it is a great opportunity it is rare tha students can be the change and it is something I want to be a part of. Why I am the best option: a lot of openmindedness and realistic, this committee requires speaking in front of groups of people and in high school I would talk about why not to do drugs, I was in leadership positions in high school. Thanks
RT: junior in Weinberg pre med bio, I love NU, but especially the people, wasn’t sociable pre NU, its impossible to to love every conversation you have with everyone from cartoons to sustainable development in foreign country’s, has led me to challenege myself to meet as many people as possible. I have hung out with NCSA CRU, fraternity, central marro, a part of NCDC, PAA, I will go to random meetings because I want to see people that I have not had the chance to meet, 10k includes the whole student body, wifi gets people out of their dorm, so as part of the committee I hope that I can enhance the experience, helping people meet eachother, or making people feel safe, you are all awesome and everyone has something to grant the community.
·      Amalia: its hard to narrow down topics, you work a lot with admin to figure out whats feasible, can you describe your experience working with admin
o   WM: as part f ISE we have a board of directors, one example is that ISBE is conducting a finance check to NY we worked with Weinberg dean of mentoring, constant meetings, it was something that came naturally, SOFO,
o   K: the president of RHA, gave me the chance to interact with a lot of admin, apart from that, I have had to work with JPK, Burgie and TI, now being part of the student task force, amongst the students interviewing, had a lot of chances to interact with them they know me by name and having that on the committee will really be a plus.
o   Anne: in high school I was on student counsul and chief editor. Conflicting roles, a lot of experience dealing with school when a tornado ripped up our community I was able to contact people. Equaly as important is being able to speak to the lower members of the community, in high school I was friends with janitors and community
o   Kenny: benefit consert that I organized, eq in Japan, raise money, performers come to raise 1000 of dollars, presented to the mayor who helped get performers from NYC to come. She was as active as we were
o   AM: no experience here but a lot in high school, when I was president, I had to work with the admin every day especially during homecoming and for blood drives, student engagement committee, admin select students to strengthen the community and foster school spirit, I do have a lot of admin experience and I don’t think it would be difficult here
o   Poco: I was secretary for my frat this past year we moved to lingren and during that I had to work w Julie Patricia and Mark, I have dealt with them here. When I was doing an internship in Nicuragua, I had to work with them there and I would imagine working with them here is easier than there
·      What do your time commitments look like and how much time do you have?
o   K: 2 commitments, ISEC, those are the only ones I have as of now, I have always been very involved in a pretty strong way so I don’t think taking 5 to 8 hours a week would be too bad
o   Anne: 3 commitments, they don’t take too much time, I am the type to make time, I can just sacrifice sleep
o   Kenny: Im not time committed to any group on campus other than my work study which is 6 hours, some student groups I may plan to join are the jazz band or intramural
o   AM: im a freshman so I don’t have many thing, I am apprenticing a DJ from midnight to 1, I have no time commitments so I can put a lot of time into this
o   Paco: I am working with ESL, and NUCHR, my first meeting is today, I have a lot more time this quarter because I am done being a treasurer, I will be okay with the time for this committee, I will only sign up for things that I have time to do.
o   WM: my mom tells me that if you want to get something done give it to someone who is busy, my term as ISBE president is done in January, I am looking for a way to get more involved
·      Corey: what about your leadership ability and character will help you differentiate between short term and long term effect on community
o   Anne: when I was in high school, in student counsil we had to deal with a lot of ridiculous questions, its definitely hard to distinguish what is and isnt possible, I cant think of any examples now but its something I have been dealing with
o   Kenny: as treasurer, we had a lot of proposals about events or proects and the biggest one that came up was the lunch line because it was too crowded, we didn’t do it because we didn’t have the money, if here at NU I would have approved it because it is something that truly would benefit the community, it would really impact the majority of students,
o   AM: in high school some ways that I changed, when I was pres of my sophomore class the dance was taken from us, those are 2 events that are now a tradition. 10k is a lot of money and that can do a lot of good and I do believe we need to make a lasting change,
o   Paco: sustainability in various countries, the topic of what is durable and how easy it is to use and fix is very important to me, especially if it improves lives. I love that kind of thing because you can penny pinch, not only the end product but afterwards, that is something that I will always think about
o   Will: in econ you talk about return on investment, you cant assign a number to a campus improvement, there are a few ways that you can talk about a lasting impact based on my personal experience really makes me an informed decision maker, not only how does this effect me as a class of 2014 but all the future classes
o   Karan: sustainable growth, short and long term growth, when I was elected RHA, very few freshman and sophomores, one of my biggest goals was to get the name out and change cukture of hall govt. I think it is better known, sustainable investment, same with AISEC, being the VP of time management, sustainable growth, members helping in the future.
·      Ian: if you were selected, would you stay on the committee for the remainder
o   Kenny: no brainer, yes, I am really passionate about this, I feel like this is something that I am really passionate about
o   AM: I knew I wanted to be in ASG, if I don’t get on this one I would definitely look to stay involved
o   Paco: I love NU anything on the committee would be perfect, enhance and pass on what made me love this place
o   Will: yes, and I am a junior
o   Karan: yes and I am a junior, invest time I want to make a difference on NU, I would want to do it next year as well
o   Anne: yes, flexible way to branch out to other committees as well.
·      Motoki: experience with the arts:
o   AM: I am a pretty bad artist if that’s what you want, I am creative but I think that is part of it and I think I come up with good ideas that contribute to the 10k committee.
o   Paco: I am a photographer and violin, I work with the key club and we would do things like a talkent or art show in a hallway, but in general
o   William: instagram, in terms of the NU art community, my friend gave me a tour of the Block I have heard the NU Philharmonic in Pick and student art shows,
o   Karan: I have been dancing for 15 years, with respect to other art forms, the symphony I enjoy music
o   Anne: piano, I wish Allison had a piano because its nice when youre having an emotional day
o   Kenny: Im not artist im a music guy, electric guitar and I am going to audition this Saturday.
·      Rebecca: what would your submission be?
o   Paco: hammocks
o   Will: enclosure for bus stops
o   Karan: printers in dorms
o   Anne: pianos
o   Kenny: bikes for a day,
o   AM: laundry is terrible, updates laundry machines.
o    
o    
·      Leverage your ASG power
o   Sofia: More about guiding them toward progress and leading them to progress
o   Alex: I am a senator and on hall govt for publicity chair, social chair of foster, making poster, happiness club, listening to people, want a way for people to speak and for us to listen
o   Danial: audit events, on sustainability for a few weeks the student leaders have come and said there is no money to execute ideas, no idea how to get going, the outreach and connection I have
o   Gabi: on publicity, get people interested and to care about what were doing, trying to get people to understand and appreciate, someone who may not think about participating, the more people you reach the better the program
o   Evan: I am not on a committee now which allows me to focus my attention to this, I have sent emails around and branch out across the senate,
o   Morgan: kemper hall senator, not the most active of buildings, mostly upperclassmen, an under represented group in ASG, engineers don’t always thing ASG is their spot, hopefully will soon be active
·      Did you participate last year?
o   Alex: asked for the big parking lot to be turned into a park.
o   Danial: I voted
o   Gabi: bike lanes
o   Evan: in high school
o   Morgan: I didn’t submit an idea but I posted
o   Sofia: I voted but didn’t submit
·      I submitted a bunch, what is your top criteria?
o   Daniel: high buy in low upkeep, costs 10 k and then hopefully very low to keep going, create utility something that everyone can use.
o   Gabi: feasibility and applicability, this is something that anyone can use its everyone’s money
o   Evan: feasibility and long term impact, its getting ASG into the minds of the community, I want something to brag about back home, Im a freshman I want something that will last
o   Morgan: the people it impacts, if it is not a broad reaching impact its not worth it. Long term impact.
o   Sofia: growth and exposure, larger projects can be downsized and reevaluated, exposure, every student should have access to it and it should have some practical use
o   Alex: there is someone out there that is brilliant insightful with no power to solve problems on their own, and with the 10k we are thinking how did we survive before this and thinking “thank youASG!”
·      Mike: what methods would you use to better market for project proposals and voting
o   Gabi: marketing is my background, one of the most important things is going person to person, whether is a frat chapter or meetings and not giving a shpeil but going and really talking I think we can all agree that this is an amazingopportunity for everyont
o   Evan: starting a club taught me how to get interested. Kids like free food, the more people that hear know and will submit. I did P wild which gave me access to a really andom group of kids which would give me across the board impact
o   Morgan: munchies, every dorm has it at some point, if you go to different club meetings, write up your idea and come tell us.
o   Sofia: flyers are flyers and emails have an effect but not that long. Branching points to give them examples or idea, more feasible and it will make them feel like they have more ownership
o   Alex: happiness club, events are direct, I feel like that’s the kind of principle we should use when advertising for this, something that will really spur an individual interest is someone coming up to you with a notepad and writing down what they said
o   Daniel: everything that has been said is important the more you hear about something the more solidified it becomes but its more important to create an image with people in it already, Norris has pictures of people enjoying Norris. Its one thing for me to read ASG is doing something but its better to see a picture of my roommate.
·      Brad: if you were to get this would you stay involved
o   Evan: 4 years
o   Morgan: at least 2 years
o   Sofia: till I graduate
o   Alex: I would love to keep going as and engineer you want to keep bettering a project
o   Daniel: too cool to quit
o   Gabi: absolutely, I want to market things the rest of my life.
Brad: COS LEGISLATION
·      COS: the COS will assist the speaker with the senator retreat,
·      Removes maintaining the calendar from the parliamentarian job description, and adding it to the COS responsibilities,
·      Removes responsibilities from the EVP to the COS
·      Coordinate effort for recruitment,
·      Cabinet selection committee.
o   Chaired by pres which selects PRVP TVP SVP, CRVP, adding to that, the COS will also be selected through that process, adds the sitting COS, to the selection committee, adding the speaker, response to all of you, a good compromise in that respect, clarifies that the outgoing member of the cabinet, references the outgoing so we are just making it explicate
o   Sitting COS are not voting member of the committee but are there for input having held the position, the bottom of #4, if the COS is a candidate they shall not sit on the committee.
o   The selection committee shall be a closed committee.
o   Clarifies if there is a vacancy in the cabinet the VP informs senate and senate confirms the action plan.
o   Works with res halls in regards to senator recruitment,
o   Organizing campus elections
o   Updating wording,
o   Organizing bonding and social events
o   Adding additional responsibilities managing handbook
o   Organizing ASG event for unity
o   Recruitment post vacancies,
o   Manage internal roster on wildcat connection
o   ASG list serves,
o   Calendar listing and times of meetings and Events.
·      Ian: move to amend 70713, university res life should be University Residential Life.
·      David: Selection committee, the outgoing VP sits as non voting member, but my understanding is that they vote in the case of a tie
o   Brad: numbers no longer require them to vote
·      Sarah: adding speakers adds power to the senate
o   Brad: added them to the committee for the entire cabinate. When this committee decides, they don’t get to appoint, only to recommend
·      Alex: POI: are committee members allowed to abstain, because then there could be a tie.
o   Brandon: they can abstain,
·      David: motion to amend: I want to amend the code to not add the sitting chief of staff to the selection committee
o   I don’t think this is a good system to set up for an organization, I can attest that the fact that outgoing admin are cooperative for better or worse in terms of being helpful I think its irresponsible to have the potential for a senior to have substantial responsibility to on this committee. I don’t think there is any value in having the sitting chief of staff, it creates the potential for an unproductive situation.
o   CON Brad: I just spoke to david, if you want to present this amendment you should, whatever you want to do I am okay with it. I want to say why its in there now, they have a years worth of experience and they have that knowledge especially because they have an intimate relationship with all of these people, original they were a voting member but I agree giving that responsibility to someone who is checked out is scary but that’s the reason why they are in there to begin with.
·      Jesse: if the concern is that they will be checked out but they are not a voting member anyways, what is the reasoning for not allowing them, I don’t see the harm.
o   David: the onus is having them adding value rather than not detracting. I don’t think there is any value added in having the COS sitting there. What if this person is impossible to schedule around, are you in a situation to see if they need to be there. How would they add.
·      Rebecca CON: I think in certain admin, there could be that one person who is really valuable, there can be instances where they want to share their wisdom,
·      Ian: I think davids personal experience is irrelevant, additionally the assumption is that the COS is a senior, so the person who sits there as the person who understands the inside of the position, in choosing the chief of staff we will pick someone who will see their job through the end of the quarter
·      Motoki PRO: previously, we never had the outgoing admin VP to be in the committee, I don’t see a point that had someone selected through the old admin sit and help select the new one.
·      Brad: both the FVP and SGC are elected by outgoing, there are 3 instances in which the previous admin controls next one.
·      VOTE: all in favor of approving davids amendment to the amendment
o   Does not pass.
Motoki: motion to amend and not strike out the 5th line about the RHA RCB
·      PRO: Last year I was the RHA RB whip, ASG filled seats without RHA RCB knowing
·      Ian: If we strike that like, it violate the RHA constitution
·      Ani: the reason I crossed out 5…
·      Motoki: motion withdrawn
Amanda: im confused about the COS
·      Ani: whats been presented as the proposed COS is amendable, we still havnt voted on the COS, so we can amend it
·      Brad: right now were only debating the amendments to the bill, but it wouldn’t approve the legislation.
Ian: RHA RCB have in place procedures if a place goes absent, we have our own process to replace it. If were negligent then the responsibility should shift to ASG because we have proven ourselves irresponsible
·      Brad: so a group cant hold our seat hostage and not give us someone, it’s a worst case scenario.
Sarah: I motion to amend the amendment, I think it should be moved to 4 weeks, only because of the way PHA IFC is set up.
·      Brad: Point of information, what your proposing is an amendment to our current code, the number 3 isnt an amendment, you can still make the amendment
o   Ani: we work with the organization and if the group is making good faith then we wont
·      Sarah: withdrawn,
·      Previous Question
·      PQ
Brad: motion to table the bill on week
·      We amended the bill there is a constitutional amendment coming up, there is a constitutional amendment coming. We want to vote on this at the same time so that our code doesn’t conflict with the constitution.
Brad: this bill is the senate group apportionment, what this does is move the process from the beginning of this quarter to next quarter as well as adds the COS. It’s a little simpler, the EVP is currently the chair of the committee, we added the COS but the EVP would still sit on it. Its also changing that the COS was only voting in cases of a tie, now they are going to be a non voting member of the committee, there is no way the group could tie so the COS doesn’t need to vote.
·      Ian: point of privilege, abstentions exist, so a tie is conceivable.
*Ani: Gabi and Evan are the members of the new committee
·      PQ: passed,
Brad: motion to table
·      Passed
Steven: just a little background, last city counsel meeting, the rental unit licensing ordinance came in from of city consul, there was a mob of land lords, they were booing hissing, it was hysterical and immature, they were all over 30 maybe 40. Lets have a resolution that its not just me supporting this, we were there for much of the meeting but I was the only student that came and spoke. Its unlikely that we will have students show up next Monday. Landlords were saying they didn’t leave their houses dangerous, when we all know. I don’t think that’s acceptable for any housing. This would validate every conversation that I have had. This will give them the regulatory “brothel law” they will be able to have steep fines if landlords refuse to have inspection officers in. its ultimately on the landlords shoulders to communicate that that is happening. Steep fines that don’t license or follow the laws. To my knowledge there is no way for the city to evict people, a compliance schedule will be set up. I think this is really important and I would mention I would suggets to move this to old business.
·      Ian: will fines increase my rent
·      Steven: 25 dollars added over 12 months. Considering how much it costs to live off campus this is not a significant increase. I personally think that that is extremely worth it.
·      Brad: why do you want it to be old business
·      Steven: next Monday it is coming up at city hall, if we don’t pass it now it wont have a strong effect, I cant tell you what will happen next Monday. As far as I know there is only one alderwoman who is considering not supporting it
Corey: motion to move this to old business
·      Jesse:
·      Steven: my former landlord was at the meeting, I spoke to him, there were 4 other people there, which was illegal. This will allow the city to look on an objective basis how many people are actually allowed to live in the location.
Michele: can we read this?
·      Steven: yeah ill send that to Ani to send it to you but it may not be the most recent version
·      The one concern is that what if this passes but they don’t change occupancy, that would mean they are all lying, one they don’t want that, there is an election in the spring. People should vote in the local election. You can register to vote in Evanston after you vote for the president. This problem hasn’t gone anywhere in 2 years since that big thing happened.
Ian: motion to move this to old business
·      PASSED
Steven: I have seen the draft to change the occupancy code, they changed the cap from 3 to 6 but its 6 per rental unit, that applies to all general housing district. And further, the majority if not all of the houses are segmented into multiple flats so there are two or three different units. I would estimate that 90 to 95% of housing would be legal under the new change.
Ian: motion to PQ
·      PASSED UNANIMOUSLY
Motoki: hey guys, SGC, we have seen in the past few years is that we have a lot of new student groups come wanting recognition. We would be putting a new sub committee that would go behind forming a new student group. We spend a lot of time doing hearings, and groups come unprepared.
·      Michele: students selected by the SGVP, so the 14 voting members, the members of the new group will be selected in a similar fashion. Motoki: the sub group that Lauren manages,
·      Ani: SGC has their members confirmed by senate because they are in charge of allocating, they wouldn’t come close to funding, that’s why Rules allowed this. So that why Rules doesn’t require these new members to be confirmed.
·      X: how many people would be in this group
o   Motoki: 2, that could change.
Motion to old business. Seconded.
Ian: Motion to amend,
·      PRO: even though these people aren’t dealing with funding directly I do feel that they should go through the same scrutiny
·      CON Rebecca: they don’t touch anything
·      David: this is an unnecessary bureaucratic process.
·      Motoki: the groups handled on these will have to go through a recognition hearing by the committee that is approved
·      Brad: whether or not you pass it, I would ask that if you want to amend it, you should wait until next week to vote on it when Lauren is here
·      Ani: don’t like it when we rush bills through, there is a reason why
Ian: I withdraw my motion, motion to table. Second
·      Passed.
CONSTITUTIONAL FORUM on CHIEF of STAFF LEGISLATION.
·      The first paragraph – changed spelling of Greek councils
·      Clerk is being struck
·      EVP as director of the cabinet is struck for duplicity
·      EVP as director of the Operations Committee is also struck
o   EVP is allowed to delegate responsibilities – can legally delegate Operations Committee chairing to Chief of Staff
·      Chief of Staff is added to the Cabinet
Brad: you have had a week to deliberate,
Katie: respectfully disagree with Jesse, I don’t think we can say nobody cares
CON: David, I think a lot of people care and I think most of those people in this room. This has been in front of senate since the first day, this has been a piece of legislation that has been debated for 3 years, it is a public forum. This is one of the more public forums we have held, we held one online via facebook I really don’t think the argument that this is setting a bad president this I don’t think it’s a good one.
·      Delaying this another week just because of principle is denying the fact that we need to move on.
PRO: I don’t think that saying in previous attempt to change is better is a good argument for saying that this is what we should be doing. I don’t think this is what the writers of the constitution intended. I think we are trying to rush something through that out to be given more gravity
·      Mike: I think because a forum wasn’t stuck to we shouldn’t move this.
CON: Jesse: does anyone believe that if we moved this back a full week, it would change the constitution. Were not sneaking one by, were doing exactly what the precedent told us to do
·      Brad: I want to echo that, we are doing exactly what is proscribed in the constitution, you all have known that this was going to be in here, you have had time, you will have a 2 week period to speak to them. Everyone received this information. It’s a completely internal matter
·      Motion to PQ.
·      All in favor of striking the public forum: does not pass.
Motion extend senate indefinitely: passed.
Parliamentary Body Restructuring
Special order FORUM
