Senate Minutes 4/30/2014
Wednesday, April 30, 2014

7:08 PM

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
April 23, 2014
1. Call to Order and Roll Call
○ Senate called to order at approx 7:05 PM.

2. Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
3. Executive Board Reports

4. General Order: Visit from Chief Marketing Officer Mary Baglivo
5. General Order: Title IX Update from ASG Executive Board
○ Legislation passed a few weeks ago concerning Title IX
○ Have reached out to College Fems, protest leaders, etc. to discuss future plans
concerning issues of Title IX
○ More to say next week...
6. Old Business: SR1314-11 Bottle Water Free Northwestern
○ Authorship speech provided by authors from Pura Playa
○ Q: Why do you feel this method of seeking a resolution is better than a referendum
like at Harvard?
○ A: Student affairs stated this would be the best way forward to prove it to the
administration that there is student support.
○ Q: Next steps after tonight?
○ A: Publicity, then gather student support and installing more water refill stations.
Then, hopefully pass this resolution and talk to JPK. Modify contract and phase out
bottled water by April 2015.
○ Q: How have Loyola and WashU addressed issues of visitors needing water?
○ A: Putting more water bottle stations with cups next to them, as well as having water
carafes instead of bottled water at events. Definitely feasible given these school's
history.
○ Debate Period
 Amend: add clause mandating all water fountains replaced by April 2015
□ Amend: strike April 2015
 Fails
□ Division called.
21-14-1. Motion carries.
Senate Minutes Page 1

 21-14-1. Motion carries.
 Previous question; seconded.
 Main motion passes.
7. New Business: ASG Operating Budget
○ Erik, Julia, and Budget Committee present speech explaining the 2014-15 Operating
Budget.
○ Q: Why did you allocate as much as you did to the Student Leadership Fund and ASG
Fund, respectively?
○ A: Pilot program for the SLF. We want that to be the one that exists long term. ASG
Fund will pay for part of the Work Study for ASG Exec.
○ Q: Proportional reasoning for ASG compared to SLF?
○ A: SLF is pilot program, and we need to get that off the ground before we hopefully
get to increase it overall.
○ Q: Would SARC have veto power over ideas that come to Wild Ideas Fund?
○ A: More that Serene and her committee would work to determine logistics rather
than veto ideas.
○ Q: How many people will be selected in the SLF?
○ A: CSI and Financial Aid would determine that.
○ Q: Clarify amount for ASG fund and SLF?
○ A: 10 thousand is given as pilot, mainly to track it easier and determine feasibility.
ASG one is more of a supplement to Work Study. We want to see how SLF works so
that we can hopefully grow the fund significantly. ASG Fund, we do not see as
needing as drastic an expansion.
○ Q: Marketing for the WIF?
○ A: 10K marketing was highly successful, and we want people to know about this on a
quarterly basis and increase events on campus rather than little things.
○ Q: Election materials?
○ A: We will now give the money, as well as paper and chalk rather than have a cap on
spending like we do now.
○ Q: Why only leadership positions in SLF?
○ A: Time allotted, as well accountability.
○ Q: Would SLF be available to Greek Executive board members?
○ A: No differentiation, beyond need-based criteria.
○ Q: How do you see individual students using WIF in order to present an idea?
○ A: Senate would get to decide, and SARC would just make sure all the logistics are in
line, like having a SOFO account.
○ Q: What outreach has been done to administrators?
○ A: Met with CSI, Patricia Telles-Irvin, and others and there is wide support for the
Events Fund, as well as the SLF and ASG Fund.
8. New Business: SL1314-28 Art at Dillo Day
○ Patrick Leonard and Eliza Abramson give authorship speech.
○ Q: Does it cost that much to make these letters?
○ A: Labor and materials cost a lot of money.
○ Q: Would you foresee loss of attendance without these
○ A: No, but it's a really cool idea and initiative. We will be able to reuse these.
○ Q: What is your preference for the items?
○ A: Order listed in agenda?
○ Q: Storage?
○ A: Storage is in Norris?
○ Q: Costs for art competition?
A: To the artists and for materials.
Senate Minutes Page 2

A: To the artists and for materials.
Q: What if it rains?
A: Wood letters would be waterproof and not damaged.
Q: Are streamers going to be cleaned up?
A: Yes.
Q: What color will the Dillo letters be?
A: Red or green.
Q: What if we don't fund any of these?
A: I don't like to think in those terms. Mayfest may have money, but Project Pool is
there to fund ideas that engage Northwestern.
○ Motion to move to Old Business.
 Seconded, and objections.
 Motion fails.
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○

9. New Business: SL1314-29 Making Pre-Med Better: Peer Advising
○ Riko Ohashi and Steven Bennett give authorship speech.
○ Q: Any information on GSW and their initiatives?
○ A: GSW is more for tutoring and assistance, not mentoring.
○ Q: Why is premed advising different than for instance, pre-business mentoring that is
predicated on helping younger students?
○ A: Not all students in the current organizations or resources in order to mentor all
pre-medical students.
○ Q: But if only 8 mentors will be provided, with 2-3 people, 16-24 people is exclusive,
is it not?
○ A: It's a pilot program.
○ Q: How do you see this program being sustained in the future?
○ A: We hope one of the organizations that currently exist will take over/
○ Q: How do you plan to market?
○ A: Email, chalking, flyering, etc.
○ Q: How do you plan on training?
○ A: Meetings planned before mentoring starts, with some organizational support, but
we will also be looking for experienced students.
○ Q: Is monetary incentive necessary at all?
○ A: We see this as necessary to incentivize good mentoring.
10. New Business: SL1314-30 Supercharging SASA’s Spring Concert
○ Parag Dharmavarapu and Naveen Reddy give authorship speech.
○ Q: What day will this be?
○ A: Venue is booked for 5/23.
11. New Business: SL1314-31: Funding for Senior Year Experience
○ Romain Sinclair presents authorship speech.
○ Q: All of these items are donated to you, correct?
○ A: Correct.
○ Q: Why aren't the fund available to you anymore?
○ A: The leader moved back to Hong Kong and we did not receive the grant this year.
○ Q: Is this mainly undergraduates?
○ A: They are the focus, but it is not exclusive.
○ Q: We don't have 5000
○ A: I'm not going to get 5000, obviously. I think it highlights how badly we need it and
how important I think this is. We really need that money and 5000 is a small chunk of
how much money we will save students.
Q: How will you sustain this in the future?
Senate Minutes Page 3

○ Q: How will you sustain this in the future?
○ A: What this is really is a cash flow issue. We will be collecting from students and
then selling it in September. Right now we need money to make it happen originally.
We've learned a lot in our second year. We donated far too much money to charities,
but our business is sustainable. We made a positive margin.
○ Q: What other funding sources have you approached?
○ A: We've looked into grants and we've reached out to sustainability groups at
Northwestern.
○ Q: You only sell items in the fall?
○ A: We sell them when students come back to campus. Late August to mid September.
12. New Business: SL1314-32 NUAsian Magazine
○ Kenny Mok and others make authorship speech.
○ Kenny: Hey guys, my name is Kenny and I am the Senator for Asian interest student
groups.
○ Kevin, NUAsian: NUAsian is one of the few print magazines for minority students.
We recently had a great issue about south asians, we covered the recent Miss
America. We usually only print two times, but this year we decided to print three,
because issues ran out at the launch party. A common question ASG asks is if we've
exhausted all sources. We have. We've gone to all internal and outside sources.
Finding sources for funding journalism organizations is incredibly hard.
○ Q: Normally, magazines raise money from ads. Do you do this?
○ A: We do, but it's not a super efficient way of getting money. Because we are Asian
interest, the business are mainly Asian interest businesses. There are only so many
you can get around to. The difference between us and other publications is that the
Daily and NBN print continuously.
○ Q: 700 or 800?
○ A: 800
○ Q: What is your long term plan for keeping this sustainable?
○ A: Grants when they see we can do this.
○ Alex: Would ASG get recognition?
○ Q: Will you be able to print in the future without this money?
○ A: No, we will not be able to, at least not as we have in the past.
○ Q: Distribution?
○ A: Tech, Library, multiple off campus locations, etc.
○ Q: Is NUAsian under APAC.
○ A: It is independent as of now.
13. Good of the Order & Announcements

14. Roll Call and Adjournment
○ Senate adjourned approx. 9:30 PM.

Presiding,
Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate

Journal Submitted for Approval,
Petros Karahalios
Senate Minutes Page 4

Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

Senate Minutes Page 5

