
ASG Senate Meeting
27 October 2010
Northwestern Room
7:00pm

Call to order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal
Executive Board Reports
Tyris: Come to my office hours!  You will hear about the ASG buddy program.  Also, there will be a make-up session for the senate retreat this Sunday.  Also, if you have a piece of vital legislation, please send it to me first, not Wilson.  Needs to know it by Sunday night.
Claire:
 NSC initiative.  First dorm storm tomorrow night.  IF you have an hour to spare, please come out!  
Also, US Empowered!  Please sign up!  It’s awesome and we want everyone to come.
Next, we are recognizing outstanding ASG members.  The first is Jared Cogan—he went to the off-campus meeting and took notes.  Also, shout out to Elana Westbrooke, Lydia Gao, and David Harris
Matt: Just to go off of a couple things that Claire said—we have about 5,000 business cards.  Just a clarification about the senator checklist and the In The Know.  The ITK is for external purposes, but the memo is for you.  Some of it might be a little repetitive.  The first set of checked off items is stuff you’re required to do.  Everything else is suggested.
Tyris: The center part of it is the required portion, like sending out the ITK or holding office hours.
Katie: Ask constituents about where students feel safe when they walk in the dark on campus.  We want to tell the administration where 
Ethan: ER is having a joint ward meeting, tomorrow 7pm in Tech LR2.  This is a great opportunity to interact with Evanston residents.  While it’s not mandatory, it’s expected all of ASG to attend.  This affects student groups, the greek system.
Isaac: point of information: Is there any way we can recycle these memos?
Tyris: speaking of being green!  Everyone, feel free to put up the agenda on your computer.  Also—to spice things up, if anyone has a funny youtube video, please feel free to share!
Special Order: ASGBuddy
Nancy: We’re starting ASG Buddy to help new senators get better acquainted with ASG.
Barry: This should be a great and very helpful program.  Please sign up!
General Order: SGVP Confirmation
Claire: Our recommendation is Liz Broder.  Speaking on behalf ot the selection committee, we chose Liz Broder because of her experience, passion, and initiative.
Liz Broder: Is a senior, 2nd year in ASG.  Background was based on student groups.  Was on the exec board of A&O, worked with DM, in Delta Gamma.  Biggest priority is to return stability to the SGVP position.  The disorganization led to confusion with funding, lots of backlog—and hopes to fix this.  Also wants to amend the guidelines, to award groups for merit, to make them clearer.  Wants to make sure that all resources are online.  Making sure that people know the difference between A and B status groups.
Questions?
Q: As a student groups senator, how do you plan on effectively communicating with all student groups senator?
A: Each student groups senator will have a GE, which is a member of the SGC that acts as a liaison between the SGC and the students groups.
Q: So the biggest problem in the past was communication with student groups and GE.  How do you propose the relationship between GEs and student groups?
A: Really wants to establish the relationship right away.  And will make sure that if a group is unresponsive, they are made know that that miscommunication will hurt them
Q: What will you do to make the transition more smooth then it has been in the past?
A: Really good record keeping that is organized and structured.
Q: Experienced problems—was thrown into a lot of groups who had a lot of needs, but without any training.  How can you make sure that a new committee member is not overwhelmed?
A: We really need to make sure that groups are aware of their deadlines.  Making sure that a standard is set, and that there is an expectation.  Will also make sure that every committee member is properly trained or informed.
Point of order: Liz works for Playboy.
Vote
Liz Broder is confirmed to the position of SGVP
Liz Broder is sworn into the position of SGVP by Claire Lew
New Business: Supplemental Funding
Emma: Difference between supplemental funding and spring funding.  Supplemental funding is comprised of revenue from the previous year, and 5% of the spring funding pool.  The groups on the front are the groups that applied for funding.  [Explanation of the funding packet].  Encouraged to contact Emma with questions, also, bring this back to your constituents and see what they think of this.  If there’s a dash that means that we didn’t recommend any money for  student groups.
Q: When honorariums are listed, is the name of the person listed the actual person who is coming?
A: No.  The person who they quote as coming is just an example of the level/caliber of the person/group who is coming.
Emma: Will send out an email.
New Business: SL 1011-01 Developing our Deliberate Assembly Pt. 1
Wilson: there are a few things that senate does that it’s the best thing to do but it’s not in the code.  So we will be conducting code review to codify some of these issues.  Come to us if you have any suggestions.
Tyris: This will be voted on next week.  To just elaborate—as practices, there are some things that we do.  There are some things that we traditionally do that conflict with Roberts Rules.
Old Business: SR 1011-01: ASG Stands with Pakistan
Over that past few weeks we had a campaign called NU Stands with Pakistan, and we raised about $18,500 dollars.
Questions?
Debate Period
Pro Speech: It’s a good cause
Motion to end debate period
Seconded
Debate period is ended
Vote
SR 1011-01 passes
Good of the Order and Announcements
Stephen: Go to project scare!
Holly: This Saturday is Demon Dash raising money to go to Prevent Child Abuse America.  Sign up!
Wilson: Props to Isaac for prompting the legislation
Amalia: Project Pumpkin is tomorrow!
Barry: This weekend A&O is showing The Shining (the old one)
Roll Call
