Senate Minutes 6/4/2014
Wednesday, June 04, 2014

7:10 PM

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
June 4, 2014
1. Call to Order and Roll Call
○ Meeting called to order at approx 7:05 PM.
2. Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
3. Executive Board Reports
4. General Order: SAFC Elections
○ 3 Nonsenator positions
 Motion to white ballot
 All candidates elected to SAFC
○ 3 Senator Positions
 White Ballot
 All elected
○ Grace Zhang given consent by Senate to serve on more than two committees.
5. General Order: Unofficial Study Abroad Guide
○ Christina Kim and Services present the website.
6. General Order: Director of New Student Groups Confirmation
○ Ariel Roitman presented by Alex Van Atta as the nominee for Director of New

Student Groups.
○ Ariel confirmed as Director of New Student Groups

7. General Order: Student Life Committee Director Confirmations
○ Chris Harlow presents the 6 nominees for Student Life Director positions
 Parag Dharmavarapu-Director of Dining Initiatives
 Alec Jansen-Director of University Services

Tara-Director of Special Initiatives
Senate Minutes Page 1

 Tara-Director of Special Initiatives
 Jen Huang-Director of Residential Life
 Haley Hinkle-Director of Transportation as Safety
 Wendy Roldan-Director of Mental Health Initiatives
○ White Ballot
○ All candidates confirmed to their respective director positions.
8. General Order: Residential Election Commission Guidelines
○ Noah Star and the Residential Senator Election Commission present their

recommendations for the Residential Senator Elections in Fall 2014.
○ Q: What about the future legislation?
○ A: We cannot consider that since it has not been codified yet.
9. General Order: First Senate for Next Year
○ First Meeting of the Senate of the 2014-15 Academic Year will be on October 1,

2014.
10. General Order: Amendment to Dorm is a 4-Letter Word
○ Chris Harlow and Erik Zorn give a presentation on proposed amendments to

SL1314-38: Dorm is a 4-Letter Word: Reforming Residential Senators
11. Old Business: Dorm is a 4-Letter Word: Reforming Residential Senator
○ Motion to Amend
 Strike Confirmation Committee
 Withdrawn temporarily
○ Motion to Amend
 Partially replace text of last week's bill with updated bill, as mentioned in the
previous General Order.
 Passes
○ Motion to Divide the Question
 Passes
○ Motion to Amend

 Strike Confirmation Committee
 Passes
○ Previous Question
 All parts voted on separately
 All pass
○ Previous Question on Entire Bill
 SL1314-38 passes by overwhelming voice vote of Senate.

Emergency Legislation: Therapy Dogs Project Pool Request
Senate Minutes Page 2

12. Emergency Legislation: Therapy Dogs Project Pool Request
○ Introduced by Chris Harlow
○ Senate votes in the affirmative to add the question to the agenda.
○ Questions asked concerning Project Pool, SAF, etc.
○ Motion to move to Old Business
 Passes
○ Previous Question
○ Motion passes
13. Good of the Order & Announcements
14. Roll Call and Adjournment
○ Senate adjourned approx 8:30 PM.

Presiding,
Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate

Journal Submitted for Approval,
Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

Senate Minutes Page 3

