Senate Minutes 4/23/2014
Wednesday, April 23, 2014

7:04 PM

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
April 23, 2014
I. Call to Order and Roll Call
○ Senate called to order approx. 7:01 PM.
II. Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.

III. Executive Board Reports
IV. General Order: Director of Educational Technologies Appointment-Academic Committee
○ Steven Bennett nominated as Director of Educational Technologies by Sofia
○ Steven confirmed by voice vote to position of Director of Educational Technologies
V. General Order: Vice President of Academics Confirmation
○ Anna Rennich presented by Cabinet Selection committee as nominee for Vice
President for Academics
○ Anna gives introductory speech highlighting her background, platform, and plans as
Vice President of Academics
○ Sofia provides her opinion on Anna as the nominee for VP of Academics
○ Q: What is the highest thing on your wish list for this year?
○ A: Service learning is what I would really like to see for next year. Expand creative
course options.
○ Q: Combining extracurricular activities with the classroom?
○ A: Ties into service learning. We should definitely study 3+E to see if it is viable.
○ Q: Opinions on reducing normal course loads to 3 classes instead of 4?
○ A: Need more research. Classes definitely strain students outside of class.
○ Q: Best thing Sofia has done as VP? What would you do differently?
○ A: Sofia did good job at building community and tackling hard projects. Want to
continue to build relationships with each member.
○ Debate Period
 Pro (4)
 Con (0)
 Endorsements provided by numerous Senators and members of the
Northwestern community.
○ Anna Rennich confirmed unanimously as the Vice President for Academics for the
2014-15 term
○ Sofia Sami swears in Anna Rennich as the new Vice President for Academics
Sofia gives a speech highlighting her time as Vice President for Academics, her time
Senate Minutes Page 1

○ Sofia gives a speech highlighting her time as Vice President for Academics, her time
in ASG, and her time at Northwestern.
 "Be accountable and be engaged."
 "Be aware of the sacrifices people made to change this university… the
combined efforts of 45 years of hard work"
 "I think you're looking for meaning"
 "Appreciate the work that people do."
 "Learn to listen, not just respond."
VI. General Order: Vice President of Community Relations Confirmation
○ Kevin Harris presented as the nominee for Vice President for Community Relations
○ Kevin gives an intro speech giving background on his time as CRVP, and goals.
○ Q: What have you done well in this past year, and what do you hope to do better?
○ A: Have given committee members a lot of free reign, and want to give them
autonomy in doing their projects. I want to continue that, and am very proud of all
the projects we have accomplished this year. For improvement, I want to ensure that
we have representation at City Council meetings and at Evanston events.
○ Q: Grand visions for projects for next year?
○ A: Idea of working with student groups. Want to discuss how we can get student
groups to expand their events and reach out to communities to improve the
experience. Continue focus on local, state, national politics. More interaction with
Evanston Public Library, museums. Will plan for the November 2014 elections.
○ Debate Period
 Pro (2)
 Con (0)
 Endorsements given for Kevin by Senators
○ Kevin Harris confirmed unanimously as Vice President for Community Relations for
the 2014-15 term.
○ Julia Watson swears in Kevin Harris for a second term as Vice President for
Community Relations
VII. General Order: Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion Confirmation
○ Austin Romero presented as nominee for Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion
○ Austin provides speech outlining intentions for VP of D/I, as well as background &
experience
○ Q: More detail on your platform based on dialogue?
○ A: Sure! It is different from debate. Point is to understand why people think and feel
certain ways. Listening to the perspective of others is important to grow as people.
ASG, as representative of this university, is embedded in the student body here, and
a lot can be accomplished
○ Q: Speak more to your time in Sustained Dialogue?
○ A: A lot of time that conflict occurs is when two points clash with each other.
Moderators step in and mediate, so that we can understand experiences and feelings,
not to start debate based on ideology. Dialogue is on personal experience, not
generalizations. Can be iffy at times, but always gets brought back to attempts to
learn.
○ Q: What communities would you seek to work with next year?
○ A: A number of different ones. I would like to plan a weekend in winter to bring
student leaders together to have a dialogue and conversation on their experiences
and perspectives. These leaders can then bring their knowledge they acquired back
to their groups.
○ Q: How will you translate the SD experience from a small group to over 8,000
undergraduates?
A: I really want to spend fall quarter discussing with committee and groups, and
Senate Minutes Page 2

○ A: I really want to spend fall quarter discussing with committee and groups, and
digging at the roots of problems emerging from issues of diversity and inclusion. We
need to define the problem first.
○ Q: What is your knowledge on Thaddeus's accomplishments and direction he took on
the D/I committee this past year?
○ A: I am aware of some of it, and want to continue his push for transparency and
engagement with the community.
○ Debate Period
 Pro (6)
 Con (0)
 Endorsements given by both Senators and members of the Northwestern
community.
○ Austin Romero confirmed unanimously as Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion
for the 2014-15 term.
○ Thaddeus Tukes swears in Austin Romero as Vice President for Diversity and
Inclusion
○ Thaddeus speaks, highlighting the future of Diversity and Inclusion at Northwestern,
as well as his confidence in Austin to enact change on campus. Thanks everyone for
the opportunity to be VP for D/I for the past year.
VIII. General Order: Vice President of Sustainability Confirmation
○ Christina Cilento presented as the nominee for Vice President for Sustainability.
○ Christina gives a speech highlighting her background, and goals for the future.
○ Wes provides endorsement and speech describing Christina's qualifications for the
positions.
○ Q: How to plan to engage students?
○ A: Hard to get students to care, I acknowledge that. Want to present awareness of
how sustainability affects campus in all types of ways, cutting across groups, majors,
etc. We definitely need an interdisciplinary approach, and give students more
opportunities to get involved.
○ Q: How would you address sustainability in the Greek community?
○ A: I live up in the Greek Quad. Yes, there does need to be more recycling bins campus
wide, and in that quad. I am open to that idea, and others you all may have.
○ Q: What is your opinion on the administration's response to sustainability?
○ A: Admin can be good in some areas, not others. Newly renovated buildings are being
LEED certified, but some will not get there anytime soon. I've worked on the
divestment campaign this past year, and we need to pressure the administration to
act.
○ Q: Ideas on getting solar panels on campus?
○ A: ESW is working on wind energy, as well as solar, and we are definitely supportive
of that. I would leave that project specifically to them, but am supportive of all forms
of renewable energy. Geothermal energy will be done at new visitor's center. We
definitely should keep pushing for it.
○ Q: Plans to do things that are less campus specific, for example, fracking in Illinois?
○ A: Would focus primarily on Northwestern issues. Divestment is good example of a
larger national movement, and we would certainly consider getting a group together
to push for certain issues.
○ Debate Period
 Pro (5)
 Con (0)
 Endorsements from both NU community members and Senators.
○ Christina Cilento confirmed unanimously as Vice President for Sustainability for the
2014-15 term.
Wesley Lien swears in Christina Cilento as the new Vice President for Sustainability
Senate Minutes Page 3

○ Wesley Lien swears in Christina Cilento as the new Vice President for Sustainability
○ Wes gives a speech about his time in ASG and at Northwestern.
 "Don't take things as regrets, but as lessons"
IX. General Order: Vice President of Public Relations Confirmation
○ Jaime Toplin presented as nominee for Vice President for Public Relations
○ Jaime gives speech highlighting her past time on PR committee, her successes, and
plans for the future as PR VP.
○ Selection Committee gives explanations of its reasoning for selecting Jaime as the
nominee for PR VP.
○ Q: What is one thing Julia did well, and one thing you will do differently?
○ A: Julia totally revamped the PR committee and grew collaboration with student
groups and administration. I want to increase collaboration with campus.
○ Debate Period
 Pro (2)
 Con (0)
 Endorsements given by other members of ASG, as well as by Senators
○ Jaime Toplin confirmed unanimously by Senate as the new Vice President for Public
Relations for the 2014-15 term.
○ Julia Watson swears in Jaime Toplin as the new Vice President for Public Relations
X. General Order: Vice President of Services Confirmation
○ Christina Kim presented as nominee for Vice President for Services.
○ Christina gives speech discussing intentions for the Services VP position, as well as
her experience.
○ Q: Goals for the following year?
○ A: Have committee discuss as whole what services are most needed for the NU
community.
○ Q: How will you increase interest in already existing Services projects?
○ A: We should look at why other methods are more desirable, and seek to improve our
services based on that.
○ Q: Can you explain your collaboration with other departments, like EECS?
○ A: We definitely want to seek to promote their ideas, as well as ours.
○ Q: What did Noah did well, what do you want to better?
○ A: Noah has been very good at having good discussions and being available. I would
like to have more of a model, rather than more scattered ideas for what services we
should pursue.
○ Debate Period
 Pro (8)
 Con (1)
 Endorsements by both NU community members and Senators
○ Christina Kim confirmed by Senate as the Vice President for Services for the
2014-15 term.
○ Noah Kane swears in Christina Kim as the new Vice President for Services
○ Noah provides a speech recounting his past year as Vice President for Services, as
well as his time in ASG.
 "Challenge. Challenge yourself, challenge others, and set high expectations for
you, others, and ASG."
 "We need to work to improve Northwestern. Don't forget that mission."
 "There are some things that suck about NU and ASG. I will not list them here.
But don't forget your task. It's been a great three years. Thank you for the
bottom of my heart."
XI. General Order: Vice President of Student Life Confirmation
Chris Harlow presented as the nominee for Vice President for Student Life.
Senate Minutes Page 4

○
○
○
○
○
○
○

○
○

○
○

○
○

○

○
○
○

Chris Harlow presented as the nominee for Vice President for Student Life.
Chris gives a speech articulating his experience and intentions for the SLVP position.
Anna gives her thoughts about her confidence in Chris to be the new SLVP.
Q: Top goal for next year?
A: Doesn't exist. I have multiple. I want to accomplish as much as I can.
Q: Do you like the current structure of Student Life Committee?
A: I want to meet with Anna and Alex, to do a good review of the past few years. I
would prefer a hybrid director position, that is still accountable to the VP and to their
committee members.
Q: What are your ideas on mental health?
A: It has been an issue for a long time. It's important that we get ASG to act on it. We
need to work with Julia and Erik to see how to interact better with the mental health
community. Specific points: lack of resources to get their message out, need to use
ASG as platform to broadcast their initiatives rather than create our own campaigns,
etc. Mental health days, maybe? Much more we can do.
Q: What has Anna done well, what would you do differently?
A: Anna has done an amazing job, and had lists upon lists of issues to work on. She has
had that challenge, and grew the committee to work on those. I would improve by
changing the structure of the committee. Anna is great at interacting with
administrators, and I definitely want to get better at that.
Q: Concerned on your platform, as there is no mention of student safety?
A: I have included it under other categories. Transportation, as well as apps to have
safe walks. It might have been an oversight on my part. But I do acknowledge we
need to pressure NU administration and Evanston to guarantee safety.
Debate Period
 Pro (7)
 Con (0)
 Endorsements given by Northwestern community members, as well as
Senators
Chris Harlow confirmed by Senate as the Vice President for Student Life for the
2014-15 term.
Anna Kottenstette swears in Chris Harlow as the new Vice President for Student
Life.
Anna gives a speech recounting her thanks for the past year, and her confidence in
Chris.
 "Thank you all for the opportunity. Go 'Cats!"

XII. General Order: Secret Ballots and the Code
○ This matter, according to the Committee on the Rules, is moot on clauses 1 and 2,
and incompatible with the current constitution on the last two clauses. The matter is
dead.
XIII. New Business: SL1314-28 J Street U Spring Speaker
○ Authorship speech asking for 600 dollars for J Street U funding for the spring
speaker.
○ Q: Move to old business?
○ A: Yes.
○ Q: Why is this brought this week?
○ A: We needed to learn the bureaucracy. I apologize.
○ Q: What will you do if you do not get the money?
○ A: Unsure.
○ Q: Benefits to campus?
○ A: Bring Palestinian Authority and Israeli journalists together to discuss peace.
Q: Attendance expected?
Senate Minutes Page 5

○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○
○

○
○
○
○
○
○

○
○
○
○

Q: Attendance expected?
A: 80 people.
Q: Current amount in project pool?
A: 2900 dollars.
Q: What groups have you reached out to?
A: Numerous. Muslim chaplain, SJP, Wildcats for Israel, etc.
Q: Will ASG money be able to go to individuals that have fronted costs. Will there be
problems with how payments are structured?
A: Money will be accounted in full.
Motion to old business. It passes. Will be heard after SL1314-27.
OK, old business now.
Motion to amend, to reduce amount to 300.
Motion seconded.
Q: Didn't you say you had other funding?
A: Not for honorarium. Only for flight and accomodations.
Con speech given urging to decide only on merits.
Pro given stating that speakers do not need that large of an honorarium, given that
they are supported by a large organization.
Point of information: are you a recognized group on campus?
A: We are B-status.
Con given stating that honorariums are negotiable only to a point. We need to decide
on merits, as this will benefit students.
Have actively sought out other funding. That is commendable. A lot of people seek to
benefit from this.
Pro: great event, I would like to see it happen. However, I still believe there are a lot
of funding sources, and ASG doesn't need to be the sole contributor.
Con: Setting aside personal beliefs, we need to evaluate based on need. Deadline is
next week, which might show lack of preparedness. Perhaps ASG has not been super
clear as to the process of sending legislation.
Motion to extend Senate by 30 minutes. Passes.
Amendment fails.
Previous question, seconded w/o objection.
SL1314-28 passes.

XIV. New Business: SR1314-11 Bottle Water Free Northwestern
○ Authorship speech given by Pura Playa.
○ Q: More water bottle refilling stations?
○ A: That is one of our largest initiatives. Fountains that need maintenance will be
automatically upgraded to those new fountains. We will push for more.
○ Q: Timeframe?
○ A: After resolution passes, we are going to meet with Julie Payne-Kirchmeier to
determine feasibility and plan on phasing out bottled water gradually.
○ Q: Is this only for selling in C-Stores and vending machines, or also to prevent
reimbursing water? Coke contract?
○ A: Yes it is. We are not pushing very hard on banning reimbursements. Following
WashU model, and Coke contract is not a huge obstacle.
○ Q: Will this extend to the Chicago campus/Kellogg?
○ A: We are focusing on Evanston C-stores and vending machines for now. Allen
Center is already bottled water free. NU is already on the path.
○ Noah: Great. We will see this as old business next week.
XV. Old Business: SL1314-27: JobCat Senator Project Pool Request
Authorship speech given on the advertisement.
Senate Minutes Page 6

Authorship speech given on the advertisement.
Q: Spoon's readership?
A: 3000 printed, 2900 were distributed.
Q: Mockup of the advertisement?
A: Current JobCat logo, with a slogan.
Q: Why is this ad necessary, as opposed to other traditional advertising methods?
A: We have used other methods, such as copy sleeves in C-stores, but we were
hoping that this would increase viewership and get JobCat's name out.
○ Debate Period
 Previous question.
 No objections.
 SL1314-27 passes by voice vote.
○
○
○
○
○
○
○

XVI. Good of the Order & Announcements
○ Offer to record your votes. Contact Alex D. for info. Noah can also give everyone the
link.
○ SASA is having Holi event, May 4th 2pm at Fire Pit.
○ Come out to the Hackathon.
XVII. Roll Call and Adjournment
○ Senate adjourned approx. 10:15 PM

Presiding,
Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate

Journal Submitted for Approval,
Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

Senate Minutes Page 7

