Senate Minutes 5/7/2014
Wednesday, May 07, 2014

7:11 PM

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government

Meeting of the Senate
May 7, 2014
1. Call to Order and Roll Call
○ Called to order at approximately 7:10 PM.
2. Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
3. Executive Board Reports
4. General Order: Visit from NU Listens
5. General Order: Visit from Vickey Getis of NUIT to present Canvas
6. General Order: Academic Committee Confirmations
1. Director of Communications- Dan Leahy
2. Director of Research- Gina Livecchi
○ Both nominees confirmed to their respective positions.
7. Old Business: SL1314-28 Art at Dillo Day
○ Debate Period
 Pros and cons given.
 Amended to 600 dollars
□ Amendment to amendment: 700 dollars. Amendment passes.
 Vote on motion to vote on the amendment, which now reads 700.
□ Pros and cons given.
□ Passes.
 Vote on amendment.
□ Passes, final form reads 700 dollars.
 Motion passes.
8. Old Business: SL1314-29 Making Pre-Med Better: Peer Advising
○ Debate Period
 Pros and cons given on the motion.
 Debate period extended 2 minutes.
○ Division called.
15-17-0
Senate Minutes Page 1

 15-17-0
○ Motion fails.
9. Old Business: SL1314-30 Supercharging SASA’s Spring Concert
○ Debate Period
 Pros and cons given.
○ Motion to amend.
 Amend action clause down to 600 dollars.
 Passes.
○ Previous Question called.
○ Motion passes.
10. Old Business: SL1314-31: Funding for Senior Year Experience
○ Debate Period
 Pros and cons given.
○ Motion to amend to 800 dollars.
 Passes
○ Motion fails.
11. Old Business: SL1314-32: NUAsian Magazine
○ Debate Period
○ Motion to Amend
 Amend action clause to 800 dollars.
 Passes.
○ Previous Question
○ Motion passes
12. New Business: SR1314-11: Supporting the Sheridan Road Bike Path
○ Wes Lien and Christina Cilento present authorship speech.
○ Q: So Evanston already has the money for this bike path?
○ A: Correct, it is scheduled for creation by 2015, but needs student support and NU
support.
○ Q: When is the next meeting between students and NU/Evanston officials?
○ A: Happen every month, but unsure when the next one will occur.
○ Q: Cost to implement the bike lane?
○ A: Unsure how the allocated amount of 1.5 million dollars will be allocated. Depends
on construction.
○ Q: Do you think having this be old business will be beneficial?
○ A: Won't affect our discussions in the near future, so it isn’t critical?
○ Motion will be heard as old business next week.
13. New Business: SL134-36: Creating Analytics Function within ASG
○ Julia Watson, Erik Zorn, and Chris Harlow present authorship speech.
○ Q: This is for ad hoc right, not VP?
○ A: Correct.
○ Q: How long will this committee last?
○ A: One year, and then a review will occur.
○ Q: Recruitment?
○ A: We will heavily recruit, and we are going to heavily publicize this.
○ Q: Why does this need to be separate?
○ A: Good question. We don't think having an assistant VP position is good, since it will
introduce more bureaucracy. It will interfere with discussion, and we need that chair
in meetings. We will only institutionalize this if it is successful, as determined by a
review.
Q: Will this person be on the Exec Board?
Senate Minutes Page 2

Q: Will this person be on the Exec Board?
A: They will report to the Board, but not sit on it.
Q: Do you see this as needing to move to old business?
A: It would be nice, and would allow us to recruit better.
Motion to move to old business
 Seconded, and objection.
 Debate
□ Pros and cons given.
□ Previous question
□ Motion to move to old passes.
○ Motion is now old business.
○ Previous Question
○ Motion passes.
○
○
○
○
○

14. New Business: SL1314-35: Bar Mitvañera
○ Authorship speech presented.
○ Q: Did you look into applying as a cosponsored event through SAFC?
○ A: No, not to my knowledge.
○ Q: What is your plan for funding this event in the future, given you could not get the
NUNights Grant?
○ A: As the new board, we will look into long-term sustainability and make a plan.
○ Q: What other places have you considered?
○ A: Parkes, Dittmar…
○ Q: To clarify, I meant funding sources?
○ A: Jewish studies, etc.
○ Q: Will you be lifting anyone in a chair? Will they be 13 or 15?
○ A: Last year, we had an 18 year old go through the process, but not 13 or 15.
○ Q: Date?
○ A: May 29.
○ Q: Can you hold the event without a DJ?
○ A: DJ is traditional for Bar/Bat Mitvah, and mariachi for quinceanera. Could be held
without it, but the event wouldn't be as good.
○ Q: What steps will you take to make the event sustainable, environmentally.
○ A: We can talk to JJ Java and see what we can do. We can try teracycling for number
6 plastic.
○ Motion will be heard as old business next week.
15. New Business: SL1314-33: Go ‘Cats, Go Green!
○ Nikki Romane and Christina Cilento present authorship speech.
○ Q: What events will this apply to? ASG events, but can you be more specific?
○ A: Can include Big Bite Night, Women & Leadership Conference, Deering Days. All
annual events, as well as new events.
○ Motion will be heard as old business next week.
16. Good of the Order & Announcements
17. Roll Call and Adjournment
○ Meeting adjourned at approx. 9:45 PM.

Presiding,
Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate
Senate Minutes Page 3

Speaker of the Senate

Journal Submitted for Approval,
Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

Senate Minutes Page 4

