Senate Minutes 4/16/2014
Wednesday, April 16, 2014

7:06 PM

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
April 16, 2014

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
○ Meeting called to order at approx 7:05 PM.
II. Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
III. Executive Board Reports
○ Majority of executive board asks Senators to simply read their reports.
○ COFHErence will be held. Cats Come to Dinner will be held again this quarter.
○ Calls to apply to SARC, SGC, other committees.
○ Legislation from Services tonight. Apply for Hackathon and also publicize.
○ Unofficial Student Guide and Study Abroad Guide will be released soon.
○ Sign up for Roundtables.
○ No Impact challenge mentioned from Sustainability.

IV. Special Order: Visit from Jim Hurley and Gene Sunshine
○ Q:Money towards athletics
○ A: About 60 million a year, most of it comes from parking and ticket sales. We provide a
need portion of the financial aid for athletes
○ Q: Increased funding for transportation.
A: Yes, it is dear to my heart. I actually had a large role in creating the shuttles
Senate Minutes Page 1

○ A: Yes, it is dear to my heart. I actually had a large role in creating the shuttles
originally. Intercampus was created to encourage people to go into Chicago. Also,
frostbite shuttles are not the best, but we are tied financially to increase
transportation. But we sympathize greatly with transportation issues from students
and faculty, and we are as responsive as we can.
○ Q: Penalty for shuttles being late/not arriving?
○ A: We try to monitor it. It is not a perfect system.
○ Q: Does 60 million for athletics count facilities?
○ A: No, it covers the operating budget. Constructing the facilities are handled in a
different line items. Usually funded by gifts.
○ Q: Priority for unrestricted gift?
○ A: Determined by President, although large gifts can be put into endowment by the
Board of Trustees. Often these are put into areas such as undergraduate financial aid
and graduate fellowships.
○ Q: Proposals for eliminating tuition and basing cost off of percentage of family income?
○ A: We have looked at that, and model multiple different scenarios such as that one.
Difficult to eliminate tuition unless there is a very large endowment. Only 3-4 schools
have this amount, and the Board and University are very interested in it.
○ Q: What can undergraduates do to influence budget?
○ A: Budget ultimately rests in Board of Trustees. But we do try and include students
whenever possible.
V. General Order: Executive Vice President Transition
○ Alex reads oath, Erik recites.
○ Erik is sworn in as the Associated Student Government Executive Vice President for

the 2014-2015 term.
VI. General Order: Student Groups Vice President Transition
○ Ani reads oath, Alex recites.
○ Alex is sworn in as the Associated Student Government Vice President for Student

Groups for the 2014-2015 term.
VII. General Order: President Transition
○ Ani reads oath, Julia recites.

Senate Minutes Page 2

○ Julia is sworn in as the Associated Student Government President for the 2014-2015

term.
○ Ani gives a speech recounting his time at Northwestern, and his experiences over

four years in ASG.
VIII. General Order: Academic Committee Appointments
○ Sofia has appointed four (4) officers to Academic Committee: McCormick, Faculty

Affairs, Advising, and Courses.
○ Candidates introduced themselves.
○ All candidates confirmed by voice votes.
IX. General Order: Rules Committee Elections
○ Nominations: John (accepted), Nikki (declined), Alex (accepted), Alec

(accepted/withdrawn), Jonathan (decline), Harrison (decline), Moira (decline),
Wendy (accept)
○ John, Alex, Wendy, introduced themselves.
○ Everyone is available at 9 PM.
○ Motion to white ballot.

○ All three are confirmed.
○ Alex is allowed to be on more than 2 committees.
X. General Order: Cabinet Selection Committee Elections
○ Timeline will be Saturday to Monday.
○ Harrison (accept), Chris (accept), Bella (accept)
○ Candidates introduced themselves.
○ Questions asked on availability, candidacy for Cabinet positions, different

perspectives during process, experience, definitions of good leadership, plans on
representing undergraduate students and not ASG.
○ Debate Period - Endorsements provided for candidates. [off record]
XI. General Order: Voting Order Code Revision
○ Isaac and Steven give intro: no more Secret Ballot (only Roll Call); purpose of code

revision increases accountability and transparency; need 2/5 vote of Senate to move
to Roll Call
Question asked about Robert's Rules, motion to Roll Call by voice, response to
Senate Minutes Page 3

○ Question asked about Robert's Rules, motion to Roll Call by voice, response to

strongly debated issues (group mentality)
○ Debate Period - Amendment: Strike section 4 (purpose, keep all new codification

except "removing Secret Ballot")
 Division called
 Amendment passes
○ Main motion referred to Committee on the Rules
XII. New Business: SL1314-27: JobCat Senator Project Pool Request
○ Noah Kane presents authorship speech.
○ Questions asked on circulation numbers for Spoon.
○ Will be heard next week as Old Business.

XIII. Good of the Order & Announcements
XIV. Roll Call and Adjournment
○ Senate adjourned at approximately 9:20 PM.

Presiding,
Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate

Journal Submitted for Approval,
Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

Senate Minutes Page 4

